SOURCE_ID: 12
SOURCE_NAME: 8 Best Nashville Neighborhoods Near Vanderbilt
SOURCE_KIND: web
SOURCE_URL: https://www.nashvillesmls.com/blog/best-neighborhoods-near-vanderbilt-nashville-tn.html
======================================================================
Unravel the allure of Nashville's best neighborhoods , beckoning those looking to live near Vanderbilt University. Experience the fusion of modernity and charm amidst dining, shopping, and cultural hotspots. Uncover the essence of Nashville's history and vibrancy. Whether you want to live close to work, invest in kiddie condos near Vanderbilt University, or broaden your real estate portfolio, immerse yourself in the best Nashville neighborhoods near Vanderbilt University to find the perfect real estate opportunity for you.

Elliston Place

Elliston Place is located in the heart of Nashville Midtown, just north of Vanderbilt University and across West End Avenue. It offers several bus routes along Church Street and Broadway that go around the university, though locals can reach the campus on foot in under 10 minutes. Some of Nashville's best live music venues, drinking holes, and eateries are located within walking distance of many Elliston Place homes. One popular spot is Centennial Park , where residents can enjoy summer concerts, outdoor yoga, and more.

Living in Nashville on the nightlife corridor along Elliston Place gives you access to long-standing music venues like EXIT/IN, Cross-Eyed Critters, Café Coco, and The End. Other Nashville staples located here include Elliston Place Soda Shop, Corner Bar, and I Love Sushi. Other eateries like Commodore Grille, Jason's Deli, and Michaelangelo's Pizza have become local favorites. In the neighborhood's northern section, locals can find top-notch medical facilities, like TriStar Centennial and Ascension Saint Thomas Hospital. For recreation nearby, Centennial Sportsplex offers swimming pools, tennis courts, a skating rink, and a fitness center.

Homes in Ellison Place tend to be part of Nashville Midtown's condo market, with many modern homes near Vanderbilt University dating back to the 2010s. Home prices in Midtown and Ellison Place range from $400,000 for a one-bedroom condo to $1.5 million for a large detached property.

Elliston Place Amenities

Jimmy Kelly's Steakhouse

Aladdin's Lounge & Bar

Martin's Bar-B-Que Joint

The Local Nashville Bar

Centennial Park Volleyball Courts

F45 Training Midtown Nashville

8th Ave S.

Known for its hip culture and independent businesses, Nashville's trendy 8th Ave S. neighborhood is situated about one mile east of Vanderbilt University. Locals can reach the campus in less than 10 minutes by biking or driving along Edgehill Avenue. Alternatively, it takes about 25 minutes to walk there or travel by bus via Wedgewood or Edgehill avenues. Locals are minutes away from I-65 and I-40, providing easy access to downtown Nashville and other nearby areas.

The 8th Ave S. neighborhood offers a wide variety of local venues, shops, and eateries, with most of them located along the main thoroughfare. These include The Basement, an up-close music venue; 8th & Roast, a craft coffee shop; and Zanies Comedy Club, a classic since 1983. Locals can also walk to hotspots like The Urban Juicer, Love Peace & Pho, and Reservoir Park. The park offers athletic courts, walking paths, a playground, and a picnic pavilion. Other local amenities include Dogtopia Daycare, Rumble Seat Guitar Store, and a Publix Supermarket.

Homes for sale on 8th Ave S. range from condos in established and newer buildings to single-household bungalows and new construction properties. Prices start at around $300,000 for a 600-square-foot condo and climb up to $2 million for a large luxury property .

8th Ave S. Amenities

Baked on 8th

Local Honey Salon

Dallas Neil Park

The Smiling Elephant

The Eighth Room

Preservation Station Antiques

Starland Vintage & Unusual

Edgehill

Edgehill is situated just east of Vanderbilt University, and only a 10 minutes' walk to the campus from the neighborhood's core. It extends from Division Street in the north to Wedgewood Avenue in the south, with Vanderbilt University and 8th Avenue South marking its western and eastern boundaries, respectively. Edgehill features a quiet residential side with tree-lined streets and some of Nashville’s best parks , as well as an urban commercial side that includes the popular Villa Place strip.

Around Villa Place, locals can find many of the neighborhood's gems, such as Barcelona Wine Bar, Jack Brown's Beer & Burger Joint, and Sadie's Mediterranean Restaurant. Other notable places include Egghill for breakfast, Bella Napoli for Italian eats, and the cocktail lounge Old Glory, which is located in an underground boiler room. For outdoor recreation, Edgehill residents are within walking distance of some of the largest green spaces in Nashville Midtown, including Reservoir Park, Rosa Park, and Edgehill Community Garden. Shops and services like Aesop, Billy Reid, Moose Men's Grooming Lounge, and CrossFit Music City are also nearby.

Homes for sale in Edgehill include traditional brick ranch homes , modern condominiums, and new construction, single-household properties. Condos are generally priced between $400,000 and $800,000, while detached properties can range from $700,000 to $3 million.

Edgehill Amenities

Vow'd Bridal Shop

Small World Yoga

Bobby's Idle Hour Tavern

No Baked Cookie Dough

The Well Coffeehouse

Rosa Park Middle School

Hillsboro Village

Hillsboro Village developed in the late 1800s as a streetcar suburb of Nashville and is now considered a hip, modern neighborhood. Located one mile south of Vanderbilt University, it's just a 10-minute bike ride or a five-minute drive away from the campus. Locals appreciate the area's walkability, with many shops, restaurants, and entertainment options close by. The neighborhood is also home to Nashville landmarks like the Belcourt Theatre, Belcourt Mansion, and the Gallery of Iconic Guitars.

Hillsboro Village is known for its unique selection of eateries located on 21st Avenue South, including E3 Chophouse, Biscuit Love, and Fido. The Pancake Pantry is a local favorite, serving up stacks of its namesake breakfast item since 1961. Other spots worth checking out include The Grilled Cheeserie, Hopdoddy Burger Bar, and The Villager Tavern. Locals are also near one-of-a-kind boutiques like The Impeccable Pig, the Nash Collection, and Molly Green. Other local amenities include the Fisher Center for the Performing Arts, Bloom Flowers, and Cognito Hair Design.

Real estate in Hillsboro Village consists of early 1900s bungalows, modern condos , and new construction, single-household properties. Prices range from $500,000 for a two-bedroom condo to more than $3 million for a large luxury home.

Hillsboro Village Amenities

Anzie Blue

Blo Blow Dry Bar

Taco Mama

Proper Bagel

Troutt Theater

Kroger Supermarket

Athens Family Restaurant

Rebecca James Clothing

12 South

One of Nashville's most walkable neighborhoods is 12 South, which is situated southeast of Vanderbilt University. Locals can reach the campus in less than 10 minutes by car or bike. The neighborhood's main commercial street is 12th Avenue South , running from Wedgewood Avenue in the north to the Four-Forty Parkway in the south. While the neighborhood's spine along 12th Avenue South is quite busy, the residential blocks surrounding it are quiet and leafy, providing a tranquil atmosphere for locals.

Dining options in 12 South range from MAFIAoZA's Pizzeria and Edly's Bar-B-Que to bartaco and Burger Up. Hip coffee shops like White Bison, Frothy Monkey, and Wanna Spoon Cereal Bar are popular gathering places, as are the classic watering holes Bottle Cap Bar, The Filling Station, and 12 South Taproom. Other neighborhood hotspots include Sevier Park, the 12th South Farmers Market, and White's Mercantile.

Homes in 12 South include single-household properties from the early 1900s as well as newly built condos and townhomes. Architectural styles range from ranch-style homes and storybook cottages to classic colonials and sleek contemporary designs . Prices generally fall between $500,000 and $3 million.

12 South Amenities

Urban Grub

Epice Lebanese

Locust (Fine Dining)

Christie Cookie Co.

imogene + willie

Halcyon Bike Shop

Waverly-Belmont Elementary

West End

West End real estate takes up a large portion of Nashville Midtown, running from I-40 in the north to Centennial Park's southwest corner, then curving to the east around Vanderbilt University. The campus is located in the neighborhood's southwestern corner and it's just a few minutes' stroll from the neighborhood's northern and central areas. Because of Vanderbilt's presence, West End features a plethora of eateries and bars near the campus, with several world-class venues right around the corner.

Some of the best spots in West End include the down-home Indian eatery Bombay Palace, the fine-dining French establishment Chateau West, and the no-frills dive Springwater Bar. The neighborhood also offers plenty of shops, including the locally-owned outdoor gear store Cumberland Transit and the trendy boutique The French Shoppe. Additionally, locals are within walking distance of Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Centennial Park, and an array of live music venues and bars in Nashville Midtown.

Condos make up the bulk of West End's real estate market, but there are a few townhomes and detached properties located on the community's southern and eastern fringes. Prices range from $350,000 for a starter condo to upwards of $2 million for three or more bedrooms in a new construction property .

West End Amenities

Fable Lounge

Analog at Hutton Hotel

Losers Bar & Grill

San Antonio Taco Co.

Centennial Dog Park

Fannie Mae Dees Park

Marathon Village

Old brick factories and warehouses make up the Marathon Village district, with most buildings dating back to the early 1900s and repurposed for modern use. The neighborhood is located north of Vanderbilt University and is a five-minute drive or 10-minute bike ride away. Its centerpiece is the historic Marathon Motor Works building, a multi-level brick structure built in 1907. Today, it houses many trendy restaurants, bars, boutiques, and galleries.

The neighborhood's open lots, colorful murals, and vintage architecture create an industrial-chic atmosphere that's unique to Nashville Midtown. Most of the action is centered along the Clinton Street corridor, where locals can find hotspots like Antique Archeology Nashville, Southern Engine Deli, and Marathon Music Works. While locals tend to venture out for groceries, there are a few local services and amenities within walking distance, including Third Coast Comedy Club, Corsair Distillery & Taproom, and Barista Parlor.

Homes in Marathon Village are mostly single-household properties located south of the Marathon Motor Works building, with prices typically ranging from $400,000 to $700,000.

Marathon Village Amenities

William Collier's Bar

Grinder's Switch Winery

Bang Candy Company

Nelson's Green Brier Distillery

Slumerican Barber & Tattoo

Watkins Community Center

Melrose

With an array of local shops and services all within walking distance, Melrose offers residents easy access to a convenient urban lifestyle. The neighborhood is located southeast of Vanderbilt University, close to the I-65 and Four-Forty Parkway intersection. To reach the campus, locals can head north on Franklin Pike, then west on Wedgewood Avenue , and get there in 10 minutes by car or bike.

8th Avenue South is the neighborhood's main strip, where locals can find all of the essentials, including fitness studios, drug stores, groceries, and coffee shops. Convenient amenities located on the strip include a Publix Supermarket, a Walgreens, and Orangetheory Fitness. There are also banks, groomers, and gas stations nearby. The area's most popular nightlife spots are Melrose Billiard Parlor, M.L. Rose Craft Beer & Burgers, and Craft Brewed. For the best grub in Melrose, locals can walk to Hattie B's Hot Chicken, Mangia Italian, and the upscale Sinema restaurant, housed in the historic Melrose Theater.

Homes in Melrose include classic Craftsman-style bungalows mixed in with modern condominiums and newly built single-household properties. Home prices vary widely depending on the size, age, and property type, with condos starting at around $250,000 and detached homes ranging from $700,000 to $2 million.

Melrose Amenities

Kroger Supermarket

GetFit Anytime

Just Love Coffee

Las Palms Restaurant

Dolce Vita Pizza

Patina + Co Antiques

Throwback Thursday Vintage

Buy a Home Near Vanderbilt University for Access to Nashville Hotspots & Local Convenience

Living in the best Nashville neighborhoods near Vanderbilt University offers an exceptional experience with a blend of modern living and rich heritage. Embrace the rhythm of the city, from vibrant entertainment scenes to serene pockets of tranquility. These neighborhoods cater to every taste and preference, providing the perfect backdrop for an enriching life. Embrace the opportunity to call these thriving communities home and let Nashville real estate charm and captivate you.

If the opportunities of Nashville excite you, contact The Ashton Real Estate Group of RE/MAX Advantage with Nashville's MLS at (615) 603-3602 to get in touch with local real estate agents who can help find the perfect Nashville home for you today.

Gary Ashton

The Ashton Real Estate Group of RE/MAX Advantage

The #1 RE/MAX team in the World!